<!-- Source: https://github.com/arduino/forum-assets/tree/main/content/categories/staff/moderation/_topics/principles-of-moderation -->

Some moderation work is entirely objective and straightforward. Other work requires making judgment calls. A set of general principles serve as the foundation for those decisions:

## Precautionary Principle

When in doubt, refrain from taking action that would be harmful if based on faulty conclusions.

An example would be the suspension of an account solely on the basis of a slight suspicion it is a spammer, without any real evidence. If they are not a spammer, this action might be quite hurtful or frustrating to the innocent person.

## Effect

The role of the moderator is to prevent the actions of one from harming the forum experience for others. If an action does not cause unjust harm, then no moderation is required (i.e., "no harm, no foul").

Even though the legal construct of free speech is not applicable to Arduino Forum, we embrace the principle. Forum members are welcome to express themselves up to the point where that expression inflicts harm on others.

## Intent

The intent behind the action must be considered when deciding whether moderation is needed, and if so the appropriate level of disciplinary action.

Impolite behavior with the intent to help someone is different from the same level of impolite behavior done simply for the sake of being rude.

## Jurisdiction

All activity is held to basic universal standards of behavior. Additional standards may apply within a given scope, and these may vary from one scope to the other. The appropriateness of behavior in a given forum topic is (within the universal standards) determined by the wishes of the topic creator.

The topic creator can't move on from their own topic, so they can be harmed by the behavior of the participants. Other participants are not obligated to participate in the discussion if they don't like how it is being conducted, so they are only harmed by the behavior of the participants in cases where that behavior has an impact outside the scope of the topic.

Spirited civil debate is appropriate in a topic where the topic creator instigated or participated actively in that debate. It is less appropriate in a topic where the topic creator is only asking for assistance and has no interest in the debate.

Rambling unstructured discussion that strays off topic is appropriate in a topic where the topic creator has welcomed, instigated, or actively participated in this type of discussion. It is not appropriate in a topic where the topic creator wishes the discussion to remain tightly focused on a clearly defined subject matter.

## Proportionality

The context in which the behavior occurred must be considered. Impolite behavior in response to impolite behavior instigated by someone else is different from an unprovoked attack.

Subsequent context should be considered in addition to the prior context. The situation is different if the subject of impolite behavior responds in kind instead of retaining civility.
